README.md, before:

# Gorten

Gorten is a project for education purposes developed for me in Golang using [Gin framework](https://gin-gonic.com/), designed to implement a checkout service for an e-commerce marketplace platform. This project aims to provide a practical learning experience by covering essential components of an e-commerce system, including:

- **Infrastructure Setup**: Implementing an API Gateway with Kong, using RabbitMQ for messaging, Redis for caching, Kubernetes for container orchestration, and MongoDB for data storage.
- **Core Resources**: Developing several resources such as User, Company, Category, Product, Order, Payment, and Shopping Cart.
- **Checkout Process**: Handling the finalization of purchases.
- **API Enhancements**: Focusing on security, resilience, and scalability improvements.
- **Monitoring and Documentation**: Implementing tracing, monitoring and documenting the API with OpenAPI specification (Swagger).
- **Future features**: Planning for additional features and improvements.

The Gorten project aims to demonstrate practical applications of Golang in building robust and scalable e-commerce solutions while offering hands-on experience with modern software practices and technologies.

## Architecture

### RabbitMQ

[![RabbitMQ Diagram](docs/rabbitmq.png)](https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/TP7DIWCn483lUOhOYtfe7w07gTH51AbLwgrGOcPQ1xgJc1-nRo-RtQKZgSUTVD-m7xE8oOIKswEw0jmJetvhbflxrUDpewrhlMFafDIrVkXVyST-6ZvWL6TkuW9Ws8rFMxxPd3pEDL10csudsaJzqY7DG4ZN1mVPfjfEpfFjvNNFNDBP9TgJDOaSrplsXbqU_c0bo76J2FlAc2zLsO0c8PmZbltWjUDht1iIxDfG3H9_8oSNJhlimIGi-DCuV2-pIiBMq74dQsFnccukqs9HHTW7CH0Velfp0ZsTtjKzUgvBncoehXtP9OMkMwdnK5Aeouest7rc012sF7xc0e5Iiadk-xTuWGovFVu2)

#### Overview

This section explains the exchanges, queues, and bindings that are configured, and describes the flow of messages through the system.

##### Exchanges

**order_exchange**: Responsible for routing messages related to order events. For example, an order creation event with the routing key order.created will be routed to the order_created queue.

**product_exchange**: Handles messages related to product events. For example, a message with the routing key product.added or product.updated will be routed to the inventory_update queue, enabling the system to handle various product-related events using pattern matching.

**notification_exchange**: Use case: when a notification event occurs, it will be sent to all queues bound to this exchange, such as the email_notifications queue.

##### Queues

**order_created**: Stores messages related to the creation of orders.

**order_paid**: Stores messages related to the payment of orders.

**inventory_update**: Stores messages related to inventory updates, such as when a product is added or updated.

**email_notifications**: Stores messages related to email notifications, which could be triggered by various events.

##### Bindings

Binding from order_exchange to queue order_created

**Routing Key:** order.created

**Description:** When a order is created, an event with the routing key order.created is published to the order_exchange. This binding ensures that the event is routed to the order_created queue, where it can be processed by a consumer that handles new order creation logic, such as sending a confirmation email or updating the order management system.

Binding from order_exchange to order_paid

**Routing Key:** order.paid

**Description:** When an order is marked as paid, an event with the routing key order.paid is published to the order_exchange. This binding ensures that the event is routed to the order_paid queue, where it can be processed by a consumer that handles order payment logic, such as updating the order status in the database or triggering shipment processes.

Binding from product_exchange to inventory_update

**Routing Key:** product.added, product.updated

**Description:** When a new product is added or an existing product is updated, events with routing keys product.added or product.updated are published to the product_exchange. This binding ensures that these events are routed to the inventory_update queue, where they can be processed by a consumer that updates the inventory system, ensuring that stock levels and product details are accurate and up to date.

Binding from notification_exchange to email_notifications

**Description:** When a notification event occurs, such as a user signing up or an order being shipped, the event is published to the notification_exchange. This binding ensures that the event is routed to the email_notifications queue, where it can be processed by a consumer that sends out email notifications to users, keeping them informed about the status of their orders.

## Roadmap

The project will be divided into the following phases:

1. API Gateway Installation **(done)**
2. RabbitMQ Installation **(done)**
3. MongoDB Installation **(done)**
4. Gin Framework installation **(done)**
5. User resource **(done)**
6. Company resource
7. Category resource
8. Product resource
9. Order resource
10. Payment resource
11. Shopping Cart resource
12. Checkout resource
13. Enhance API Security
14. Kubernetes Installation
15. Enhance API Resilience
16. Enhance API Scalability
17. Enhance Perfomance
18. Monitoring & Tracing
19. The Open API Documentation
20. Future features

# 1. API Gateway Installation

## Features

| Package                                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Kong](https://konghq.com/products/kong-gateway)                                               | API Gateway                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Authentication using JWT Kong Plugin                                                           | All APIs will only be accessed by a JWT token                                                                                                                                                  |
| [Request termination](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-termination/configuration/) | Implements rejection of unauthorized requests to implement a security policy that rejects any request not associated with a defined route. This is done by checking if the route is configured |
| [Response transformer](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/response-transformer/)             | Add HTTP Headers to avoid XSS and Clickjacking attacks                                                                                                                                         |
| [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)                                                              | It makes it easy to create, deploy, and run applications, portable containers that work the same everywhere                                                                                    |
| [CORS](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/cors/)                                             | Enable CORS. CORS allowing resources to be requested from another domain outside the domain from which the resource originated                                                                 |
| [Request transformer](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/)               | Add X-Request-ID (correlation-id) to all endpoints                                                                                                                                             |

# 2. RabbitMQ Installation

To set up RabbitMQ for this project, we've provided an automated shell script that configures the necessary exchanges, queues, and bindings. Follow the instructions below to get RabbitMQ up and running.

## Features

| Package                               | Description         |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) | AMQP Message Broker |

## Running the Setup Script

The setup script **setup-rabbitmq.sh** is designed to be executed automatically when the RabbitMQ container starts. This script performs the following actions:

- Waits for RabbitMQ to Start: The script waits until RabbitMQ's management API is available before proceeding with configuration.
- Creates an Admin User: A dedicated RabbitMQ admin user (rabbitmq_admin) is created with the specified password.
- Configures Exchanges, Queues, and Bindings: The script declares all necessary exchanges, queues, and bindings as required by the application.

**Environment Variables**

```env
RABBITMQ_USER: Username for the RabbitMQ admin user (default: rabbitmq_admin).
RABBITMQ_PASSWORD: Password for the RabbitMQ admin user (default: my_password).
RABBITMQ_HOST: Hostname for RabbitMQ (default: localhost).
RABBITMQ_PORT: Management API port (default: 15672).
WAIT_TIME: (default:10)
```

To override these defaults, you can set the environment variables in your .env file.

# 3. MongoDB Installation

The `setup-mongo.js` script is automatically executed when the MongoDB container is started, ensuring that all necessary collections and their validation rules are created.

Mongo Express allows easy inspection and management of MongoDB collections through a web interface.

## Features

| Package                             | Description     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------- |
| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) | NO SQL Database |

**Environment Variables**

```env
# MongoDB Configuration
MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=admin
MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=password

# Mongo Express Configuration
ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME=admin
ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD=password
ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER=mongodb

# Basic Auth Configuration for Mongo Express
ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME=admin
ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD=qwert
```

To override these defaults, you can set the environment variables in your .env file.

# 4. Gin Framework installation

## Features

| Package                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Gin framework](https://gin-gonic.com/)                                        | Facilitate fast and lightweight HTTP routing and middleware management.                                                                                        |
| [Golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/)                                    | Robust linting, ensuring code quality and consistency                                                                                                          |
| Exception handler                                                              | Middleware to handle with exceptions                                                                                                                           |
| [Standards project layout](https://github.com/golang-standards/project-layout) | Implemented a scaffolding following best practices using the golang-standards repository. This scaffolding provides a solid foundation for further development |

# 5. User resource

The User resource, including repository, service, module, model, and handler layers.

## Features

| Package                                                       | Description                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| [Testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify)                | Library for assertions and mocks    |
| [Mongo Go Driver](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver) | The official Golang MongoDB driver  |
| [Viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper)                       | Handle with configuration           |
| [Uber Fx](https://github.com/uber-go/fx)                      | Handling with dependency injection  |
| [Google UUID](https://github.com/google/uuid)                 | UUID generator for creating User ID |
| [Validator](https://github.com/go-playground/validator)       | Form and Field validation           |

# 6. Company resource

TBD

# 7. Category resource

TBD

# 8. Product resource

TBD

# 9. Order resource

TBD

# 10. Payment resource

TBD

# 11. Shopping Cart resource

TBD

# 12. Checkout resource

TBD

# 13. Enhance API Security

TBD

# 14. Kubernetes Installation

TBD

# 15. Enhance API Resilience

In this phase, I will implement some strategies to improve the resilience of APIs, ensuring they can handle with failures and recover effectively. I will adopting the following strategies and tools:

- Implement Circuit Breaker using Circuit Breaker package in Kong API Gateway.
- Implement Circuit Breaker using Hystrix-Go package.
- Implement retries e backoff using Retry-Go package.
- Configure timeout into the entire services in Kong API Gateway
- Implement Fallback Pattern using Go-Fallback or Resilience4j package (I haven't chosen yet).
- Implement Bulkheads.
- Implement Active Health Checks in Kong API Gateway
- Implement Failover strategies with Kubernetes (replicaSet)

# 16. Enhance API Scalability

To ensure API Scalability and can handle increasing demand effectively, I will adopting the following strategies and tools:

- Implement Load Balancing with Kubernetes
- Implement Rate Limiting Using the Kong Plugin

# 17. Enhance Perfomance

- Implement Caching with Redis
- Compressing response using Gzip

## Features

| Package          | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Kong Compression | Package to enable Kong to accept Gzip compression |
| Redis            | Caching system                                    |

# 18. Monitoring & Tracing

This phase I will integrating monitoring through the entire system to ensure visibility and performance management. The goal is to provide real-time insights, track system health, and identify potential issues early by monitoring various metrics, logs, and events across all services. This will help in maintaining system reliability and performance.

- Implement monitoring across all services (I haven´t chosen the application yet)
- Implement Distributed Tracing with Jaeger

# 19. The Open API Documentation

In this phase, the OpenAPI documentation will be created for every API within the project. This documentation will serve as a detailed reference with all available endpoints, request and response formats, and authentication methods by using the OpenAPI specifications.

- Provide The OpenAPI Documentation with [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) for synchronous APIs
- Provide [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/en) documentation for asynchronous APIs

# 20. Future features

| Feature / Application | Description                   |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Kubernetes            | Implements Service Register   |
| Jenkins               | Implements CI/CD with Jenkins |
| Github Actions        | Add Github Actions            |

Commit message:

Add Logrus package into the application

README.md, after:

# Gorten

Gorten is a project for education purposes developed for me in Golang using [Gin framework](https://gin-gonic.com/), designed to implement a checkout service for an e-commerce marketplace platform. This project aims to provide a practical learning experience by covering essential components of an e-commerce system, including:

- **Infrastructure Setup**: Implementing an API Gateway with Kong, using RabbitMQ for messaging, Redis for caching, Kubernetes for container orchestration, and MongoDB for data storage.
- **Core Resources**: Developing several resources such as User, Company, Category, Product, Order, Payment, and Shopping Cart.
- **Checkout Process**: Handling the finalization of purchases.
- **API Enhancements**: Focusing on security, resilience, and scalability improvements.
- **Monitoring and Documentation**: Implementing tracing, monitoring and documenting the API with OpenAPI specification (Swagger).
- **Future features**: Planning for additional features and improvements.

The Gorten project aims to demonstrate practical applications of Golang in building robust and scalable e-commerce solutions while offering hands-on experience with modern software practices and technologies.

## Architecture

### RabbitMQ

[![RabbitMQ Diagram](docs/rabbitmq.png)](https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/TP7DIWCn483lUOhOYtfe7w07gTH51AbLwgrGOcPQ1xgJc1-nRo-RtQKZgSUTVD-m7xE8oOIKswEw0jmJetvhbflxrUDpewrhlMFafDIrVkXVyST-6ZvWL6TkuW9Ws8rFMxxPd3pEDL10csudsaJzqY7DG4ZN1mVPfjfEpfFjvNNFNDBP9TgJDOaSrplsXbqU_c0bo76J2FlAc2zLsO0c8PmZbltWjUDht1iIxDfG3H9_8oSNJhlimIGi-DCuV2-pIiBMq74dQsFnccukqs9HHTW7CH0Velfp0ZsTtjKzUgvBncoehXtP9OMkMwdnK5Aeouest7rc012sF7xc0e5Iiadk-xTuWGovFVu2)

#### Overview

This section explains the exchanges, queues, and bindings that are configured, and describes the flow of messages through the system.

##### Exchanges

**order_exchange**: Responsible for routing messages related to order events. For example, an order creation event with the routing key order.created will be routed to the order_created queue.

**product_exchange**: Handles messages related to product events. For example, a message with the routing key product.added or product.updated will be routed to the inventory_update queue, enabling the system to handle various product-related events using pattern matching.

**notification_exchange**: Use case: when a notification event occurs, it will be sent to all queues bound to this exchange, such as the email_notifications queue.

##### Queues

**order_created**: Stores messages related to the creation of orders.

**order_paid**: Stores messages related to the payment of orders.

**inventory_update**: Stores messages related to inventory updates, such as when a product is added or updated.

**email_notifications**: Stores messages related to email notifications, which could be triggered by various events.

##### Bindings

Binding from order_exchange to queue order_created

**Routing Key:** order.created

**Description:** When a order is created, an event with the routing key order.created is published to the order_exchange. This binding ensures that the event is routed to the order_created queue, where it can be processed by a consumer that handles new order creation logic, such as sending a confirmation email or updating the order management system.

Binding from order_exchange to order_paid

**Routing Key:** order.paid

**Description:** When an order is marked as paid, an event with the routing key order.paid is published to the order_exchange. This binding ensures that the event is routed to the order_paid queue, where it can be processed by a consumer that handles order payment logic, such as updating the order status in the database or triggering shipment processes.

Binding from product_exchange to inventory_update

**Routing Key:** product.added, product.updated

**Description:** When a new product is added or an existing product is updated, events with routing keys product.added or product.updated are published to the product_exchange. This binding ensures that these events are routed to the inventory_update queue, where they can be processed by a consumer that updates the inventory system, ensuring that stock levels and product details are accurate and up to date.

Binding from notification_exchange to email_notifications

**Description:** When a notification event occurs, such as a user signing up or an order being shipped, the event is published to the notification_exchange. This binding ensures that the event is routed to the email_notifications queue, where it can be processed by a consumer that sends out email notifications to users, keeping them informed about the status of their orders.

## Roadmap

The project will be divided into the following phases:

1. API Gateway Installation **(done)**
2. RabbitMQ Installation **(done)**
3. MongoDB Installation **(done)**
4. Gin Framework installation **(done)**
5. User resource **(done)**
6. Company resource
7. Category resource
8. Product resource
9. Order resource
10. Payment resource
11. Shopping Cart resource
12. Checkout resource
13. Enhance API Security
14. Kubernetes Installation
15. Enhance API Resilience
16. Enhance API Scalability
17. Enhance Perfomance
18. Monitoring & Tracing
19. The Open API Documentation
20. Future features

# 1. API Gateway Installation

## Features

| Package                                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Kong](https://konghq.com/products/kong-gateway)                                               | API Gateway                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| Authentication using JWT Kong Plugin                                                           | All APIs will only be accessed by a JWT token                                                                                                                                                  |
| [Request termination](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-termination/configuration/) | Implements rejection of unauthorized requests to implement a security policy that rejects any request not associated with a defined route. This is done by checking if the route is configured |
| [Response transformer](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/response-transformer/)             | Add HTTP Headers to avoid XSS and Clickjacking attacks                                                                                                                                         |
| [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)                                                              | It makes it easy to create, deploy, and run applications, portable containers that work the same everywhere                                                                                    |
| [CORS](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/cors/)                                             | Enable CORS. CORS allowing resources to be requested from another domain outside the domain from which the resource originated                                                                 |
| [Request transformer](https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/)               | Add X-Request-ID (correlation-id) to all endpoints                                                                                                                                             |

# 2. RabbitMQ Installation

To set up RabbitMQ for this project, we've provided an automated shell script that configures the necessary exchanges, queues, and bindings. Follow the instructions below to get RabbitMQ up and running.

## Features

| Package                               | Description         |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) | AMQP Message Broker |

## Running the Setup Script

The setup script **setup-rabbitmq.sh** is designed to be executed automatically when the RabbitMQ container starts. This script performs the following actions:

- Waits for RabbitMQ to Start: The script waits until RabbitMQ's management API is available before proceeding with configuration.
- Creates an Admin User: A dedicated RabbitMQ admin user (rabbitmq_admin) is created with the specified password.
- Configures Exchanges, Queues, and Bindings: The script declares all necessary exchanges, queues, and bindings as required by the application.

**Environment Variables**

```env
RABBITMQ_USER: Username for the RabbitMQ admin user (default: rabbitmq_admin).
RABBITMQ_PASSWORD: Password for the RabbitMQ admin user (default: my_password).
RABBITMQ_HOST: Hostname for RabbitMQ (default: localhost).
RABBITMQ_PORT: Management API port (default: 15672).
WAIT_TIME: (default:10)
```

To override these defaults, you can set the environment variables in your .env file.

# 3. MongoDB Installation

The `setup-mongo.js` script is automatically executed when the MongoDB container is started, ensuring that all necessary collections and their validation rules are created.

Mongo Express allows easy inspection and management of MongoDB collections through a web interface.

## Features

| Package                             | Description     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------- |
| [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) | NO SQL Database |

**Environment Variables**

```env
# MongoDB Configuration
MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=admin
MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=password

# Mongo Express Configuration
ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINUSERNAME=admin
ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_ADMINPASSWORD=password
ME_CONFIG_MONGODB_SERVER=mongodb

# Basic Auth Configuration for Mongo Express
ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_USERNAME=admin
ME_CONFIG_BASICAUTH_PASSWORD=qwert
```

To override these defaults, you can set the environment variables in your .env file.

# 4. Gin Framework installation

## Features

| Package                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Gin framework](https://gin-gonic.com/)                                        | Facilitate fast and lightweight HTTP routing and middleware management.                                                                          |
| [Golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/)                                    | Robust linting, ensuring code quality and consistency                                                                                            |
| Exception handler                                                              | Middleware to handle with exceptions                                                                                                             |
| [Standards project layout](https://github.com/golang-standards/project-layout) | Scaffolding following best practices using the golang-standards repository. This scaffolding provides a solid foundation for further development |
| [Logrus](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus)                                   | Configure Logrus for Enhanced Logging                                                                                                            |

# 5. User resource

The User resource, including repository, service, module, model, and handler layers.

## Features

| Package                                                       | Description                         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| [Testify](https://github.com/stretchr/testify)                | Library for assertions and mocks    |
| [Mongo Go Driver](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-go-driver) | The official Golang MongoDB driver  |
| [Viper](https://github.com/spf13/viper)                       | Handle with configuration           |
| [Uber Fx](https://github.com/uber-go/fx)                      | Handling with dependency injection  |
| [Google UUID](https://github.com/google/uuid)                 | UUID generator for creating User ID |
| [Validator](https://github.com/go-playground/validator)       | Form and Field validation           |

# 6. Company resource

TBD

# 7. Category resource

TBD

# 8. Product resource

TBD

# 9. Order resource

TBD

# 10. Payment resource

TBD

# 11. Shopping Cart resource

TBD

# 12. Checkout resource

TBD

# 13. Enhance API Security

TBD

# 14. Kubernetes Installation

TBD

# 15. Enhance API Resilience

In this phase, I will implement some strategies to improve the resilience of APIs, ensuring they can handle with failures and recover effectively. I will adopting the following strategies and tools:

- Implement Circuit Breaker using Circuit Breaker package in Kong API Gateway.
- Implement Circuit Breaker using Hystrix-Go package.
- Implement retries e backoff using Retry-Go package.
- Configure timeout into the entire services in Kong API Gateway
- Implement Fallback Pattern using Go-Fallback or Resilience4j package (I haven't chosen yet).
- Implement Bulkheads.
- Implement Active Health Checks in Kong API Gateway
- Implement Failover strategies with Kubernetes (replicaSet)

# 16. Enhance API Scalability

To ensure API Scalability and can handle increasing demand effectively, I will adopting the following strategies and tools:

- Implement Load Balancing with Kubernetes
- Implement Rate Limiting Using the Kong Plugin

# 17. Enhance Perfomance

- Implement Caching with Redis
- Compressing response using Gzip

## Features

| Package          | Description                                       |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| Kong Compression | Package to enable Kong to accept Gzip compression |
| Redis            | Caching system                                    |

# 18. Monitoring & Tracing

This phase I will integrating monitoring through the entire system to ensure visibility and performance management. The goal is to provide real-time insights, track system health, and identify potential issues early by monitoring various metrics, logs, and events across all services. This will help in maintaining system reliability and performance.

- Implement monitoring across all services (I haven´t chosen the application yet)
- Implement Distributed Tracing with Jaeger

# 19. The Open API Documentation

In this phase, the OpenAPI documentation will be created for every API within the project. This documentation will serve as a detailed reference with all available endpoints, request and response formats, and authentication methods by using the OpenAPI specifications.

- Provide The OpenAPI Documentation with [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) for synchronous APIs
- Provide [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/en) documentation for asynchronous APIs

# 20. Future features

| Feature / Application | Description                   |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Kubernetes            | Implements Service Register   |
| Jenkins               | Implements CI/CD with Jenkins |
| Github Actions        | Add Github Actions            |
